title: Building a Digital Footprint
date: 2014-01-04 15:48
categories: python blog

In January of 2012, you had no idea who I was. I know this because Google didn't
know *this* Jeff Knupp. Google knew all about the former Penn State wrestler,
the lawyer, the musician, and the motocross afficionado Jeff Knupps (all
separate Jeffs, I believe), but it knew nothing about *me*.

I wanted to change that, and below is an account of how I did. I always wanted
to be the guy getting calls from recruiters all day (note: you *do not* want to
be that guy; it's terribly annoying) instead of the guy meekly hitting the 
"submit" button on job forms on company web sites. I wanted to be *known*.

## Rewind

I started this blog, originally called "Hackers Gonna Hack" (using the stock
Octopress theme), in February of 2012. Before then, I essentially did not exist.

**Except I did exist**

I just hadn't focues on building a digital footprint for myself. I had done
nothing publicly noteworthy, and thus no presence on the Internet. In February
of 2012, I decided I was no longer happy with Google's results for "Jeff Knupp".

## The Blog

The first thing I set about building was this blog. Even in 2012, blogs seemed
so 2005, though. Why did I choose to start a blog rather than hop on Twitter and
churn out some 140 character pearls of wisdom? **I was playing to my strengths.**
I knew, if I had any talent writing, it lay in long-form prose rather than
tweets. If pithy one-liners are not in your wheelhouse, don't bet the farm on
them.

One thing that I knew was my enemy was *time*. Like all things worth having, 
a digital footprint takes **time** to build. And I will tell you right now
something I couldn't admit to myself then:

*Building your presence takes time and there's no way around it. You can not become famous overnight. Deal with it.*

I kept scouring the Internet for *something* that would give me a leg up: SEO,
link exchanges, directories. They were all worthless in the face of *time*. Time
for your content to be found, time for people to reference your content from
elsewhere, time, time, **time**. Today, links to my content can be found all
over Stack Overflow, GitHub, corporate wikis, personal blogs, and everything in
between. And my blog is only PR 4. There's now way to fake it. It's *going to* take time.

But that time passes. For me, it did so in the form of my first dozen or so
posts. They were on all sorts of different topics. None of them were
particularly insightful. I kept plugging away.

In the meantime, I became active on Stack Overflow and GitHub. One thing I've
found particularly useful/important was to *keep my account names consistent*. I
was always `jeffknupp` or `jknupp`, making it easy for anyone (at that time, no
one) to follow me accross sites. I put all kinds of projects on GitHub, answered
all the Stack Overflow questions I could, and just kept producing.

See, that's the real secret: *you've got to be constantly producing content*.
And here's the even deeper secret: **it won't all be good.**. In fact, *most* of
it won't be good. But that doesn't mean you stop. It just means you've learned
another thing that doesn't work, then keep producing.

During that time, I was producing like mad (and I'd like to think I still am).
Oddly, I felt accountable to the (zero) readers of my blog to produce new
content, even though my audience (zero) was still rather small. That
accountability helped push me to generate more content, and was a good thing.
Now, pressure to produce new things comes from me, rather than some perceived
group of people hanging on the edge of their seats for Jeff Knupp's next blog
post. The latter can actually become so great that people stop blogging. You
just need to realize that *no one really cares that much about what you do*.
